And you see that as sort of the future trend. And I
imagine academics everywhere, but especially at
Texas A&M. Do you think there is a perception of
molding the A&M system as something that has a
distinctive A&M character to it? In other words,
that our member institutions will become
Texas A&M? No. I don't believe so. I hope not. Yeah.
On the other hand, well, another way to put that is I
don't see our other universities becoming branch
campuses of Texas A&M University. But you know,
chancellors come and go, and boards come and go,
and maybe in the future people have a different
idea. That's my view. that each of those
institutions has its own set of opportunities it
has its own special character it has its own kinds
of constituencies that it serves and i want to see
them develop those areas of advantage that they
have and they are different the other side though
as you'll see from the system definition here
there are many aspects of the of the traditional
strengths of Texas A&M University that I want to
see, in fact, and be transferred to all of our
institutions. One of those is leadership
development. And you'll see that we've got the
land grant missions of research, education, and
service, and we've added to that a fourth, which is
leadership development.
All four of those are straight-out growths of
Texas A&M University's tradition as a land-grant
institution and as an institution that produces
leaders.
Any other qualities like that you think are
programs that you would expect to see infused?
And it's not only the way, but the sense of royalty
and of cohesiveness that the former students of
Texas A&M have, if we can help our other
institutions to create. I interviewed Luck Wirus
yesterday. Oh, did you? Three and a half hours, I
think you're right. We really went over that. But
it was really fascinating, the mechanics of
developing this kind of program. quite a mailing
list. Some of our new institutions didn't even
have a list of their alumni. I would think it would
be an easy way to transfer that kind of experience
and expertise, which would make for better
cohesiveness. Well, quality, of course.
Quality. Commitment to quality and emphasis as a
first and foremost mission for every one of these
universities being education.
I'd like to see us remember that the fundamental
reason we're all here is the students.
What about, in that relationship, promoting The
transfer, literally, of students from one
institution to another, is that easier within the
system? It is. The problem, and we've been
sharing, A&M University's been sharing its
excess applicant pool with the other
institutions. And last year, they got quite a few
students they wouldn't have gotten. Because of
that? Because of that. But the problem here in
College Station is the saturation level. And as
much as we like ready transfer, it's going to be
difficult. Do you see this university
developing, as some have suggested, as a
primarily upper division research graduate
institution? I don't think so. I think one thing
that Our minority institutions, in particular,
are going to be able to feed, hopefully, good
candidates for our graduate programs here. And
that will help our diversity issue. And I think
there's room, whereas the undergraduate program
is pretty full, I think there's room to expand the
graduate programs. Yeah, I know that's Somewhat
not controversial, but I know a lot of people
certainly don't want to see the undergraduate
program decline.
I agree with you. And I've got a, I guess I have a
basic reason for feeling that way.
It's particularly true with any of the
professional areas, but I think it's probably
true in general, that I would like to see A&M be a
national leader in shaping how
professionals do their work. Now, I can relate
best to engineering. And if I speak from an
engineering point of view, I'd like to see the
faculty of engineering here at A&M be in the
forefront of setting the future directions and
policies for the practice of engineering. Now,
when you educate people to become engineers, the
basic education comes at the undergraduate
level, because that's where you cover the broad
field and you have the basic preparation in math
and science and so on. How you do that is what's
going to shape how people practice engineering,
because the graduate programs are more
specialized Yeah. They come at a different point
in the individual's development. And so if we're
going to be leaders in shaping these fields for the
future, we better have a strong, forefront
undergraduate program. I can see, too, why you
would stress the collaboration of the university
with industry, for example. That's what your
primary mission is. I won't keep you any longer.
OK. Thank you very much. I really appreciate it.